\input texinfo
@c -*- texinfo -*-
@documentencoding UTF-8
@setfilename guile-god.info
@settitle Manual for the guile-god library

@include version.texi
@set YEARS 2025
@copying
Copyright @copyright{} @value{YEARS} @value{AUTHOR-NAME}@* <wreed@@disroot.org>

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A
copy of the license is included in the section entitle ``GNU Free
Documentation License''.
@end copying

@c DIRECTORY ENTRY
@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry
* Guile-GOD: (guile-god). GOD data serialization for Guile
@end direntry

@c TITLE PAGE

@titlepage
@title The Guile-GOD Manual
@subtitle For use with Guile-GOD @value{VERSION}
@subtitle Last updated @value{UPDATED-MONTH}

@author @value{AUTHOR-NAME}

@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@c @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top The Guile-GOD Manual

This manual documents the Guile-GOD library @value{VERSION}, a
GOD parsing and conversion library for GNU Guile.

@menu
* Introduction::		Introduction to the library.
* Tokenizing::			The tokenizing portion of the library.
* Parsing::			The parsing portion of the library.
* Conversion::			The conversion/serializing portion of the library.

* GNU Free Documentation License::	The license of this manual
* Procedure Index::
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@c @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@noindent
This manual documents Guile-GOD, a GNU Guile scheme library for parsing and
serializing the @code{GOD} data format. It is the reference implementation
of a parser for the language, and is maintained by the author of the @code{GOD}
specification.

@noindent
Since this library is written in Guile scheme, you will likely want to
familiarize yourself with the language itself, @xref{Introduction,,, guile,
GNU Guile Reference Manual} for a good place to start.

@noindent
This manual will assume a minimum understanding level of Guile (or
scheme generally), though not a very high level. The author of this
library and manual has only been writing Guile for close to one year.


@c @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

@node Tokenizing
@chapter Tokenizing

@noindent
The @code{(god token)} module provides the data structure for the @code{token}
type, various procedures related to said type, as well as the main tokenizing
procedure.

@noindent
@deffn {Procedure} make-god-token @var{type} @var{value} @var{line} @var{column}
Return a new @code{token} object of @var{type}, with @var{value}, with the
coordinates @var{line} and @var{column}.
@end deffn

@noindent
@deffn {Procedure} god-token? @var{object}
Predicate to test whether @var{object} is a god token.
@end deffn

@noindent
@deffn {Procedure} god-token-type @var{token}
Return the token type of @var{token}.
One of @code{newline}, @code{number}, @code{string}, @code{bool}
@code{null}, @code{identifier}, or a @code{char} type.
@end deffn

@noindent
@deffn {Procedure} god-token-value @var{token}
Return the value of @var{token}
@end deffn

@noindent
@deffn {Procedure} god-token-line @var{token}
Return the line index of @var{token} in the file or string from which
it was read.
@end deffn

@noindent
@deffn {Procedure} god-token-column @var{token}
Return the columnar index of @var{token} in the line
it was read from.
@end deffn


@node Parsing
@chapter Parsing

placeholder: parsing

@node Conversion
@chapter Conversion

placeholder: Conversion

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl-1.3.texi

@c @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@

@node Procedure Index
@unnumbered Procdure Index

@printindex fn

@bye